Hello and welcome to the second part of the
creation of this hybrid deep learning model,
going from unsupervised to supervised deep learning.
So now the challenge is to create this dependent variable
because of course to train a supervised deep learning model,
we need a dependent variable, and this is the tricky part
because so far we don't have it since we've just worked with
a unsupervised deep learning model
which doesn't consider any dependent variable.
So here comes the tricky part and then we'll have some more
tricky parts but that's more related to Python code,
but that's very good for you because you will get to learn
some useful Python tricks.
Alright so as you can see I've prepared what we're gonna do
in this part 2 first we're gonna create the matrix of
features which is our first input that we need to train our
supervised deep learning model, and then we'll create this
dependent variable that's the tricky part.
This will be very easy to create the matrix of features
well we can just use what we did here to you know extract
this matrix from the dataset only we won't call it X
we will call it by a new name which will be customers,
we'll replace X by customers
because basically this matrix of features contains
the information of all the customers of the bank,
and each line corresponds to one customer,
with all its different information's.
So that's why I'm calling it customers and then you'll see
we'll call the dependent variable is_fraud,
So that you know that is_fraud equals one,
if yes there is a fraud
and is_fraud equals zero if no there is no fraud.
So customers and now the question is,
where do we need to include as columns from the dataset?
You know here we took all the columns except the last one
and remember the last one was the class
whether the application was approved or not,
and we included the customer ID to keep track of
the customers.
But here we only need a matrix of features
that contain some information's that can potentially
help predict the probability of a fraud,
so first of all the customer ID will definitely not
help us to predict the probability of a fraud,
so we won't include that column, but then the class
the last column here of this dataset
might be of relevant information that will help us
identify some correlations between the customers
information's and its probability to cheat.
So we never know we will include this independent variable.
So basically to create our matrix of features we're taking
all the variables from index one, so we don't include the
first one of index zero, up to the last one,
and therefore customers will be all the columns of our
dataset of indexes going from one up to the last column
and here with this minus one we don't include
the last columns that's not good, we need to remove it
and there we go, now we include all the columns
except the first one and then of course we take all
the lines because we wanna take all the customers.
Alright, perfect and then we have these dot values
just to create the NumPy array.
Okay perfect, now we have our matrix of features
so I'm going to select this line and execute
and here we go that's our matrix of features,
it contains our 690 customers and all their features
that is, all their different information that they need to
fill out for the credit card application.
Perfect and now time for the tricky part,
lets create the dependent variable.
So how are we going to do that?
Well first, what will be this dependent variable?
Well as you probably understood, this dependent variable
will contain the outcomes whether it was fraud or not,
so it will be a fraud with a binary outcome,
which will therefore get the value of zero and one,
zero if there is no fraud and one if there is fraud.
And so how can we use the results that we obtained
thanks to our unsupervised deep learning model
the self organizing map,
well we can extract the customer IDs of this list of frauds
because basically this list of frauds contains all the
customer IDs of the customers that potentially cheated.
So we will use this to create our dependent variable,
and if you haven't figured it out yet try,
to still create this dependent variable.
Alright, so how are we going to do this?
Well basically the ideas that we're gonna initialize a
vector of zeros a vector of 690 zeros,
so basically its like were pretending that at the beginning
all the customers didn't cheat
and then we will extract these customer IDs
and for these customer IDs,
we'll put a one in our vector of zeros.
We'll replace the zeros by one's for the index corresponding
to these customer IDs.
So that's the ID and so lets do it.
So first what we have to do is initialize a vector
and as we said we're gonna have to call this vector is_fraud
and that will be our dependent variable.
So how can we initialize the vector?
Well, there is a trick for that, it's a function by NumPy
so let's use first the shortcuts empty here to get
this function and this function is zeros.
And that's very practical function because basically
you can create a vector of zeros of any number of elements.
And what we want is 690 elements.
And to generalize this even more, we can put len dataset,
because len dataset is number of observations
in the dataset that is 690.
Alright, perfect, so let's check it out.
Let's execute this line to make sure,
we have vector initialized with 690 zeros.
That's the case that's perfect.
So now we can move on.
So now the challenge is to put one's for the customer IDs
that potentially cheated.
So now what we need to do, is to loop over all our customers
and then for each customer, we're gonna check
if the customer ID of this customer,
belongs to this list of frauds
and if that's the case, will replace the zero by one.
So let's do this, we make a for loop,
then we need a variable that we call i
and then we need a range, so in range
and the range must be the range of the indexes
of the customers.
So since the default start is zero, what we all
need to specify is the stop and that's len dataset again.
That is 690.
Okay, so for i in range len dataset, perfect then colon,
no Python syntax, and then enter to go into the loop.
And so now as we just said, for each customer,
we need to check if it's customer ID,
is inside this list of frauds and so how can we do that?
Well, that's rather simple, we need to make an
if condition, and so that goes this way,
we need to start with,
if the customer ID of this customer,
so we need to extract the customer ID of the customer
and this customer ID is contained in
dataset.iloc(i,0).
Why is that, it's because the I here corresponds
to the I's line of the dataset.
And you know each customer corresponds to a line,
so the I's line corresponds to the I's customer.
That is the customer we're dealing with right now the loop
and then zero because as you remember,
the first column of the data set contains the customer ID
so dataset.iloc(i,0) will get the customer ID
of customer number I and then that's all,
we don't need a dot values because the dot values
is just to create the NumPy array.
Okay, so first thing done, we managed to extract
the customer ID of the customer,
we're dealing with right now in the loop.
Now, we need to check if this customer ID
is in the list of frauds.
And so how can we do that?
Well, there is nothing more simple and it's very intuitive.
We need to add in frauds,
and this will look into customer ID
is inside this list of frauds.
And if that's the case, we need to tell what happens
and what happens of course is that
we replace the zero by one for that specific customer.
So for this customer the value in is_fraud will get a one
instead of zero and the value of is_fraud with this customer
is given by is_fraud(i).
That's the value of is_fraud corresponding to that customer
because this customer has index I.
You know, in the whole all of our customers in the dataset
and also our matrix of features customers,
that's why we make sure we keep track of the indexes
and so is_fraud(i) is going to be equal to one alright,
and that way we replace the zeros by one's
for all the customers that have their customer ID and fraud.
And so now good news that will create the dependent variable
because we will get a dependent variable of 690 elements
first initialized zeros, but then we will get some one's
at the indexes of the customers that have their customer IDs
in this list of frauds.
So basically, we're ready to execute this section,
and this will create the dependent variable,
we can check it out, it is now vector of 690 elements.
And if we open it, we get our dependent variable
with the one's for the indexes of the customers
that are in the list of frauds.
So as yo can see we have 37 one's because,
in our list of frauds, we have 37 elements,
and here are the remaining one's.
Okay, that looks good.
We're ready to move on to the next step.
And actually, another good news, the next step is very easy,
because now since we have all the ingredients
to train our artificial neural network, well, we can use
our code template in the WPI to train it,
to train the artificial neural network.
So that's what the next step is about.
I'm going to move on to the next line.
And here we go, let's now train
our artificial neural network.
So here's the code template and inside this code template,
what do we need to take?
Well, first, we don't need to take this,
because this is the data pre processing phase.
And we already have the data well prepared,
but still will take the feature scaling part because
that's required to train an artificial neural network.
So we will take everything from here features scaling
up to this line.
And we're not taking this line because we wanna get
the predicted probabilities.
Because we want to make a ranking.
So I'm copying all this.
So basically, just the features scaling part
in all the architecture of the ANN,
plus the training here with the fit method,
and then the predictions, the predicted probabilities.
So let's copy this and let's get back to our mega case study
to paste that inside.
All right, and now we have a few things to change.
Well, first, thanks to the warnings we can already
see where we have to change.
First is the input that we need to scale.
So since we don't have testset, we will remove that line.
And now we need to replace X train
by the new name of our matrix of features,
which is customers,
customers and then same here,
we need to replace x train by customers.
Here we go, now we are ready to feature scale
our matrix of features.
And we don't need to scale the dependent variable
because it takes the value zero and one, so that's okay.
Alright, so let's do this.
Let's already execute this section and here we go.
Perfect now our customers are all scaled and we can move on.
Alright, now time to build the ANN,
the architecture of the ANN
and fit the ANN to our training set.
Okay, so first of all, the important thing is that
we're working with a very simple dataset.
It contains 690 observations,
that's very small for deep learning.
But the idea is not to do big data here,
or work on some very complex data sets.
The idea is to learn how to combine
two deep learning models.
So don't pay attention to the simplicity of the ANN
we're about to make, you can totally make it more complex,
if you're working on some more complex datasets.
So what we're gonna do now
is simplify this as much as possible,
we don't need this complexity.
So I'm removing the second hidden layer.
And then we'll just take two neurons instead of six.
And of course, now we need to change the input dimension.
Remember, the input dimension corresponds to the number
of features you have in your matrix of features.
And right now in our matrix of features we have 15 features.
So input dim should be equal to 15 instead of 11.
So that looks better, then we will keep the same
initializer, the same activation function, that's all good.
So all good here as well.
But then we need to make a few change here.
First we need to change of course, the input and the output,
and then we'll change also the batch size
and the number of epochs.
Alright, so first the input, the input is of course
our matrix of features that's no longer called xtrain but
now customers, alright, now we need to change the output
which is no longer called white train but now is_fraud,
okay, so we have our inputs and our output
and now in the same spirit of simplicity,
well let's change the batch size to one
and the number of epochs to one or two,
because the dataset is so simple that it will only take
one epoch or maybe two for our ANN to understand
the correlations.
The weight will only need to be updated in one shot.
One or two shots.
So maybe we'll take two epochs.
You don't need to train a deeper learning model for
100 epochs, if you have fewer observations,
and few features.
Two epochs will here be way efficient.
Alright so we have artificial neural network ready
and so now what we're gonna do is train it,
to our matrix of features customers,
and our dependent variable is fraud.
So let's do this.
I'm going to select all this code section here.
And time to learn.
All right, using TensorFlow backend, first epoch
and second epoch and okay.
Alright, so as you can see, first, we slightly improved
the accuracy from the first epoch to the second epoch.
So that's what I was telling you.
The good accuracy was found very quickly.
However, the last was reduced pretty well.
It went from 53% to 31%.
So maybe you can try with more epochs,
but I can assure you that two is way sufficient.
Okay, so we built our second deep learning model
to supervise deep learning one
and so now in the next tutorial,
we will make the final predictions.
Until then, enjoy deep learning.